Irri was a handmaiden of Daenerys Targaryen.


==
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Irri tends to Daenerys. 		 	 
With Daenerys is unwell from extensive travel, Irri, along with Jhiqui and Doreah, helps her to walk to a tent. While Irri and the other two tend to Daenerys in the tent, Daenerys asks them if they have seen dragons. Irri states that dragons are gone. She is also very skeptical of Doreah's story of dragons coming from a long-destroyed second moon. Irri insists that the moon is a goddess, and not a giant dragon egg as Doreah claims. Jhiqui sides with Irri but Daenerys is intrigued by Doreah's "dragon egg" story and asks Irri and Jhiqui to leave her alone with Doreah.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Irri discovers that Daenerys is pregnant. 		 	 
Irri acts as a translator between Daenerys and her bodyguard Rakharo. Rakharo protects Daenerys from one of her brother Viserys's famous rages by whipping him around his throat, though he respects Daenerys's request not to kill him. Irri and Rakharo show mutual puzzlement at her mercy. Irri determines that Daenerys is pregnant and arranges a special dinner to celebrate. Irri tells Jorah Mormont about Daenerys's pregnancy as she demands Rakharo to find something different than horseflesh for the meal.
Irri tends to Doreah after Viserys beats her. Irri burns her hands when she tries to handle a dragon egg Daenerys has put into a fire pit, Daenerys was holding the egg without it affecting her. Irri is present when Viserys threatens Daenerys and her baby and translates his words to Drogo. Irri watches as Viserys is killed by the Khal using molten gold to avoid spilling blood in Vaes Dothrak.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Irri, as part of Daenerys's retinue, inspects the markets of Vaes Dothrak. 		 	 
Irri is part of Daenerys's retinue as she inspects the markets of Vaes Dothrak. She is there when a wineseller tries to assassinate Daenerys. Jorah foils the attempt and Rakharo captures the man. Irri watches as Drogo swears to invade the seven kingdoms as revenge for the assassination attempt. Irri accompanies Daenerys to Lhazar when the khalasar raids there to obtain slaves to fund crossing to Westeros. Daenerys objects to the rape of the captives and Irri is present when Drogo kills Mago for questioning Daenerys's authority.
She helps Daenerys to care for Drogo when his wound festers. Daenerys loses her baby and Drogo is left catatonic when she turns to Maz Duur's blood magic. The khalasar splinters without Drogo and Daenerys smothers him to end his suffering. She builds a funeral pyre for him and stakes Maz Duur within the flames to avenge the loss of her son. Daenerys also puts her eggs within the flames and shocks Irri when she walks in after them. The remains of the khalasar stay around the fire all night. In the morning they find Daenerys alive in the ashes with three dragons. Irri swears fealty to Daenerys along with the rest of her people.



 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Irri mourns Rakharo. 		 	 
Irri crosses the Red Waste alongside the rest of Daenerys's khalasar. Daenerys's silver dies during their journey. Daenerys halts the majority of the column and sends her bloodriders to scout ahead. Irri is distraught when Rakharo's horse arrives back to the khalasar without him. Jorah approaches the horse and discovers Rakharo's severed head. She is devastated because, according to Dohtraki belief, unless his body is cremated Rakharo's spirit won't be able to move on to the Night Lands (the afterlife) to ride with his ancestors. Irri is comforted by Daenerys, who tells her that tonight Rakharo will ride with them. Irri was in love with Rakharo.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Irri and the horde arrive at Qarth. 		 	 
At Qarth, Daenerys joins Irri by her bed and Irri describes the repairs she has made to Daenerys’s clothes. Daenerys thanks Irri, calling her friend. Doreah picks up a dress from the bed and asks if Daenerys has seen it. She tells her Xaro had it made for her and reports hearing that he is the wealthiest man in Qarth. Irri concurs with her fellow handmaiden. Doreah adds that Qarth is the richest city in Essos. Daenerys recalls her gift from Illyrio Mopatis, saying that the last time a rich man gave her a gown it was because he intended to sell her into marriage with Drogo. Irri offers a Dothraki prayer for Drogo to ride forever in the night lands. Daenerys tells Doreah that they know nothing about their host and suggests that men often speak about other men when they are happy, suggesting that Doreah seduce some of Xaro’s fellow citizens to obtain more information. Doreah says that Daenerys would look like a real princess in Xaro’s dress and Irri objects to the title, correcting Doreah that Daenerys is a Khaleesi. Irri breaks the ensuing awkward silence by encouraging Daenerys to wear the dress as a guest’s courtesy to Xaro. When Xaro throws a reception for Daenerys in his gardens, Irri and several of the khalasar are also present.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Irri's body in Xaro Xhoan Daxos's manse 		 	 
Daenerys discovers that some of her Khalasar have been murdered. She runs to her chamber and discovers Irri strangled to death, her dragons and Doreah missing. Daenerys is devastated at the theft and at being unable to protect Irri. The warlock Pyat Pree reveals that he took the dragons, and she later finds out he was in concert with Xaro. Daenerys also finds out Doreah betrayed her, and had a hand in Irri's death.


=======
Acharia corrected speculation that Irri's death had occurred because she was unable to continue working in the United Kingdom due to work visa problems in a Reddit AMA, confirming that she could have continued on the show but the writers had decided to write out her character.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Deleted scene of Doreah killing Irri. 		 	 
In a deleted scene, available on Season 2 Blu-ray, it was actually Doreah who strangled Irri to death, instead of just indirectly betraying her to her death. It must be remembered that this is from a deleted scene and thus it is not canonical and is not officially considered to have actually happened. Exactly why the scene was deleted, whether for plot reasons or simply for time constraints, has not been revealed.
Amrita Acharia gave another interview after her departure, noting that the death scene filmed for Irri actually gave her real bruises, “I think it’s hard to be strangled onscreen because obviously to an extent to make it look real, you really have to be a bit strangled. So I had massive bruises on my neck the next day. I was proud. Battle scars. Death scenes are fun."


===
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Irri is a Dothraki slave given to Daenerys by Drogo to teach her how to ride. She is ethnically a Dothraki, but was enslaved when her own khalasar was defeated by another. She is the same age as Daenerys, and is fond of using the Dothraki saying, "It is known."
Irri is usually seen paired with Daenerys's other handmaiden Jhiqui. In the TV series, however, Jhiqui only appeared briely in one scene during Season 1, it seems that the TV series has functionally condensed both into one character.
In the books, Irri survives the journey through the Red Waste and the stay in Qarth, and continues to serve Daenerys during her campaign in Slaver's Bay and her reign in Meereen.
In the fifth novel, Jhiqui and Irri both develop a crush on Rakharo, who has grown more tall and muscular. They argue whom he would prefer.
Following Daenerys's departure from Meereen, Jhiqui and Irri accompany the Dothraki search parties, dispatched across the Skahazadhan to locate their queen.


=====