Lord Ned Umber  was the son of Lord Smalljon Umber and his successor as the head of House Umber.


==
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Alys and Ned swear fealty to Jon. 		 	 
Ned is at the council of Northern and Vale lords in Winterfell's main hall held by the new King in the North Jon Snow. Sansa suggests giving the Last Hearth to an ally of Jon, but Jon dismisses this idea, as Ned wasn't to blame for Smalljon Umber's actions. Jon speaks his name and Ned stands up from amongst the other lords, a full head shorter than them and wearing an expression of fear and uncertainty. Jon then motions for him and Alys Karstark to walk forward and stand before him; fearing that he will have them executed, Ned and Alys obey. However, Jon does not show any desire to punish them for their fathers' actions and instead asks them to once more swear fealty to House Stark. Visibly relieved, Alys and Ned draw their swords, kneel before Jon and declare they will serve House Stark "now and always", retaining his position as Lord of Last Hearth.
Ned is also present when Jon announces his plans to leave for Dragonstone, to make an alliance with Daenerys Targaryen in order to defeat the Night King, and leave Sansa in control of the North.



 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Ned requests more horses and wagons for his house. 		 	 
Ned is assembled with several other Northern Lords when Jon arrives with Daenerys and her army, observing the Dragon Queen with curiosity and trepidation. He is then seen in the Great Hall of Winterfell with the assembled lords discussing the breaching of the Wall at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. Since Last Hearth is the closest castle to the breach, Sansa tells Ned to return to Last Hearth to gather his bannermen and return to Winterfell. He requests more horses and wagons to speed up the process of getting his people to Winterfell, awkwardly addressing Jon and Daenerys as well, and leaves the Great Hall once his request is granted.
Later, at Last Hearth, Ned is found dead by a combined group of Free Folk, Night's Watch, and the Brotherhood Without Banners led by Tormund, Beric Dondarrion, and Eddison Tollett. He has been pinned to a wall in the castle's great hall, at the center of a spiral of severed limbs with a knife in his hand. Beric states that the spiral symbol is a message from the Night King.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Beric Dondarrion burns a reanimated Ned. 		 	 
Ned, who has been reanimated as a wight, awakens to the sound of the three conversing and lets out an unholy scream that startles the men before lashing out at Tormund with his knife. Beric quickly finishes the wight with his flaming sword, immolating Ned and the spiral in the process and finally killing the undead boy.


===========