
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Randyll and Dickon attend court. 		 	 
Dickon attends Cersei's court of Reachmen in King's Landing, along with his father, who mentions the fact that the Dothraki and Unsullied will attack Westeros during Daenerys Targaryen's war for Westeros. Jaime, seeking to get Randyll on his own, erroneously calls Dickon "Rickard", before privately requesting an audience with Randyll.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Dickon and his father march on Highgarden with the Lannisters. 		 	 
Dickon eventually follows his father's decision to forsake the Tyrells and, together with Randyll, becomes part in the Lannister war efforts against the Tyrells which culminates in the Lannister army conquering Highgarden. During this battle, Randyll functions as a general of the Lannister army, with Dickon by his side.
On the ride back to King's Landing, Jaime accosts Dickon, again calling him a wrong name ("Rickon"). Dickon corrects him, and Bronn laughs at his name, to Dickon's irritation. Jaime inquires how Dickon feels about conquering Highgarden; Dickon initially claims it was glorious, but once Bronn reminds him that Randyll is out of earshot, Dickon shows some regret, saying he knew many of the men there and had hunted with them.
Jaime consoles Dickon, agreeing that they did not deserve to die, but Olenna betrayed her Queen, and as a result Highgarden had to be taken. Dickon also notes that the carnage smelled worse than he expected, something Bronn claims he learned when he was five-years-old.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Dickon fights at the Battle of the Goldroad. 		 	 
 Later, the Lannister/Tarly army is ambushed by a Dothraki Khalasar commanded by Daenerys Targaryen, who is flying on Drogon. When Drogon blasts a hole in the army's formation with his fire, Dickon looks on in horror at the burning soldiers. Despite fighting fiercely, the Westerosi forces are swiftly overwhelmed by the combined cavalry and dragonfire attack, and the battle soon becomes a rout. Dickon saves Jaime from a Dothraki warrior by stabbing the warrior in the back. Jaime nods at him in gratitude. 

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Dickon is incinerated by Drogon alongside his father. 		 	 
After the battle, Dickon and his father are among the prisoners of war lead to Daenerys for an ultimatum. She offers the choice to bend the knee, or be executed. After Randyll refuses, Dickon joins his father in denying her as their Queen, despite both Tyrion's urging to do so and Randyll's objection, since his death will mean the near extinction of house Tarly. Daenerys subsequently sentences them to both to death by dragon fire. At her command, Drogon obliges and burns father and son alive, despite Tyrion urging Daenerys to show mercy by imprisoning them, to make them change their mind.


