
Samwell Tarly assists Ebrose with the autopsy of Maester Weyland, weighing the organs in a scale. Ebrose suspects that Weyland had died from liver failure due to intemperate drinking. Samwell repeats his request to access the restricted section of the Citadel's library in order to research the White Walkers, a request which Ebrose denies. While Ebrose assures Samwell that he does believe his claims regarding the Walkers, he explains the reason for his reluctance, and emphasizes that the duty of a maester is to be skeptical.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Ebrose and Sam discuss the condition of Jorah's greyscale. 		 	 
Ebrose examines Jorah Mormont's Greyscale, and deems it too advanced to treat. Even when asked by Sam if he can try, he still remains adamant that Jorah's condition is his end. He states that he would normally send Jorah to Valyria to live with the Stone Men but, with Jorah being an anointed knight, he will allow him one more night at the Citadel; a glance at Jorah's sword implies that Jorah will have the chance to take his own life in relative comfort. Although Ebrose explicitly forbade him from treating Jorah, Sam does so anyway and is able to cure him.

When Ebrose arrives in the morning to see to Jorah, he finds him completely cured. Despite being told by Jorah that no one tended to him, feigning a natural climate-based recovery, Ebrose realizes immediately what Sam has done and calls him into his office. There, he congratulates Sam on saving Jorah's life with a procedure few experienced Maesters have ever successfully performed. He then immediately orders Sam, who had expected a reward, to make new copies of a tabletop's worth of many old scrolls and manuscripts before they completely rotted away and their information is lost forever; his reward is not being banished from the Citadel for ignoring orders. 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Ebrose directs the Conclave. 		 	 
Later, Ebrose and the other Maesters discuss Bran Stark's letter warning that the army of the dead and the White Walkers are marching south towards Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. He and the other Maesters are skeptical of this report and dismiss Samwell Tarly's efforts to vouch for Bran. Ebrose himself opines that the letter could be disinformation spread by the self-proclaimed Queen Daenerys Targaryen. They agree to investigate these claims further and to send a letter to Winterfell inquiring into Bran's claims. When Samwell leaves the room, the other Archmaesters discuss the death of his father and brother, however, Ebrose announces that he had not had the heart to tell Sam about it. Sam departs the Citadel before Ebrose can tell him about his family's fate.


