
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Rodrik presides over Will's execution. 		 	 
Ser Rodrik informs Lord Eddard Stark that Will, a deserter from the Night's Watch, has been caught in the hills. He accompanies Eddard to Will's execution. On the way back to Winterfell he witnesses the discovery of the six direwolf pups in the Wolfswood. The Stark children adopt the pups. King Robert Baratheon visits Winterfell and Ser Rodrik assembles with the rest of the household to welcome him. Robert asks Eddard to serve as hand of the King. Bran Stark is found severely injured at the base of a disused tower. 
Eddard goes south to King's Landing and Jory accompanies him as the Captain of his personal guard while Rodrik remains in Winterfell. An assassin infiltrates the castle and attempts to kill Bran but is foiled by Catelyn and Bran's direwolf Summer. Rodrik identifies the blade carried by the assassin as Valyrian steel. Catelyn suspects House Lannister (due to a blonde strand of hair found at the tower) and decides to warn Eddard personally. Rodrik offers to send a squad of guards with her but she is concerned about drawing attention. He offers to accompany her personally and she agrees.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Rodrick and Cat in King's Landing. 		 	 
Rodrik and Catelyn arrive in King's Landing. He escorts her during through the city and they are told that Littlefinger lost the blade used by the assassin gambling with Tyrion Lannister. They set out for Winterfell. At the Inn at the Crossroads, Rodrik unsuccessfully attempts to dismiss the singer Marillion. He helps Catelyn take Tyrion Lannister prisoner when he arrives at the inn. As they head east through the Vale of Arryn via the Eastern Road. Rodrik helps fend off an attack by the hill tribes and receives a minor wound, but is able to complete the journey to the Eyrie. Rodrik's nephew Jory Cassel is killed by Jaime Lannister while protecting Eddard in King's Landing.
Rodrik witnesses Tyrion's trial by combat and is disappointed when Tyrion's champion wins. King Robert dies following a hunting mishap and Eddard questions the lineage of his successor, Joffrey Baratheon. Eddard is arrested for treason and held in the dungeons of King's Landing until the newly-crowned Joffrey orders him beheaded, prompting the North to secede and rise in anger and rebellion. 

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Rodrik watches as Robb announces their victory at Whispering Wood. 		 	 
Rodrik accompanies Catelyn to Moat Cailin, where they find Robb Stark's army camped, where he greets Greatjon Umber like a longtime friend. Robb needs to cross the river Trident but is unsure of the support of Lord Walder Frey. Rodrik advises Catelyn to not go into the Twins alone to talk to Lord Frey. She does so anyway and negotiates safe passage. Robb wins a victory in the Battle of the Whispering Wood and captures Jaime. News of Eddard's execution reaches the camp and Rodrik is part of the group that proclaims Robb Stark the King in the North.


