
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Leaf assures Meera of her destiny to come. 		 	 
Leaf sits nearby as Meera despondently regards the lands outside the cave. When Meera rejects
Bran's friendly overtures, Leaf tells Meera that her destiny is not over, as Bran still cannot defend himself in the real world and he will need Meera's help when he is ready to use his abilities outside the cave.
Leaf is present when the Three-Eyed Raven pulls Bran out of his vision of the Showdown at the Red Mountains. She appears concerned by the resulting argument between the Three-Eyed Raven and Bran.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Leaf creating the White Walkers thousands of years ago. 		 	 
Bran has a vision of Leaf thousands of years in the past, in which she uses an obsidian dagger to convert a restrained man into the first White Walker: the Night King. Upon waking up, he immediately confronts Leaf about the vision. Anticipating such a reaction, Leaf says that the Children of the Forest were at war, being slaughtered, their sacred trees cut down. She confirms that it was men with whom the Children were at war. The Children created the Walkers to protect themselves.   

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Leaf, Meera, and the children notice the Night King and his army. 		 	 
Later, Leaf prepares the cave's defenses when Bran moves too quickly and attracts the attention of the Night King.
When Meera arrives outside the cave to see what’s going on, she, Leaf, and the other children notice the Night King and his army approaching. Leaf then pressures Meera to get Bran and run.

Leaf and the other Children then fight a horde of wights with fire and the White Walkers with dragonglass, but her compatriots are killed one by one.  	 	 	 		 		 		 			Leaf makes a final sacrifice. 		 	 
When the White Walkers and the wights breach the cave, Leaf flees with Meera, Hodor and Bran. When noticing the wights behind them, Leaf stops and tells Meera to keep going. She then lets the wights get close to her, where they stab her multiple times, and activates another explosive device, setting a small section of the wights aflame, but also killing herself in the process.
After escaping the cave and still escaping from wights, Bran briefly sees Leaf in his vision.


