
Off screen, Lorch is raiding in the Riverlands when he is approached by a pair of gold cloaks with a royal warrant for the royal bastard Gendry. The Gold Cloaks request assistance from Lorch to capture the boy who has been protected by Yoren and his Night's Watch recruits. 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Amory arrests the Night's Watch recruits. 		 	  On screen, the Gold Cloaks along with Lorch and a force of Lannister soldiers return to Yoren's group. Lorch confronts Yoren and attacks his group when Yoren refuses to give up Gendry. Lorch kills Yoren personally after his men have subdued him and then imprisons the survivors, ordering them to be taken to Harrenhal. He does not realize that Arya and Gendry are among them. He questions them about Gendry and is tricked into believing that the slain Lommy Greenhands was his target because he was carrying Gendry's bull's head helmet.
Lorch and his men deliver the prisoners to the Mountain at Harrenhal. The Mountain oversees the torture of the captives, killing several of them. When Tywin returns to Harrenhal, he ends the interrogations and orders the prisoners put to work, criticizing his men for wasting valuable manpower.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Tywin berates Amory for his illiteracy. 		 	 
Lorch attends a war council held by Tywin. Tywin criticizes his men for underestimating Robb Stark and demands that they devise a new strategy. Lorch reports rumors from spies that there is discontent in Robb's camp. Tywin is dismissive, saying that discontent is a part of war and that the very same spies would report the same from the Lannister side.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Amory is killed by Jaqen H'ghar at the request of Arya Stark. 		 	 
Amory is chastised by Tywin during a war council, since due to his illiteracy - a letter meant for Lord Damon Marbrand was instead accidentally sent to Lord Marlin Dormund, a vassal of House Stark. Exasperated, Tywin remarks that "my cupbearer reads better than you!" Later, Amory catches Arya with a stolen letter and tries to seize her, and then heads to inform Tywin. Frantically, Arya seeks out the assassin Jaqen H'ghar and names Amory as her next kill. Ser Amory is killed with a poisoned dart to the neck dipped in wolfsbane, just as he enters Tywin's chambers. Tywin mistakes it for an assassination attempt on himself.


