
Edd is present when Mance Rayder is executed by Stannis Baratheon for refusing to bend the knee. During the choosing for the 998th Lord Commander of the Night's watch, Edd sits quietly throughout the proceedings. He applauds when Jon is officially elected to succeed Mormont. 
Edd is sitting with Sam when Jon first gives new assignments as Lord Commander. The antagonistic Thorne being named as First Ranger causes Edd and Sam to look at each other in confusion. When Janos Slynt refuses to man and repair Greyguard, Jon Snow orders him to be brought outside. Edd is initially blocked by Thorne, but he steps aside while giving Edd a look of approval. Edd and two black brothers seize Janos and bring him out to the courtyard. Although Janos boasts of his "powerful friends" in the capital, Edd forces Janos down onto the chopping block and watches as he is executed by Jon Snow for disobedience.
Following Jon's decision to allow the wildlings to pass the Wall in order to escape the White Walkers and possibly aid them in the upcoming battle, Edd voices that though he will follow Jon no matter what, he will not forget nor forgive the wildlings for the deaths of Grenn, Pyp, and the others lost in Mance Rayder's attack. Nonetheless, he accompanies Jon Snow and Tormund, along with some other black brothers, when they leave for Hardhome.
Edd accompanies Jon and Tormund as they approach the wildling leaders at Hardhome via Stannis's Royal Fleet. After negotiations, Jon asks Edd to start gathering any dragonglass weapons in the tent. Edd does so, and approaches the clearly intimidating giant Wun Wun to ask that he give up the dragonglass arrowhead he is curiously observing.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Edd and Jon face an attack from the Army of the Dead at Hardhome. 		 	 
However, Wun Wun doesn't give it up and asks Edd "The fuck you looking at?" in the giants' rudimentary form of the Old Tongue, so Edd goes away quietly, without collecting the arrowhead. When the White Walkers begin their attack, Edd fights off several wights and, in the confusion, manages to find and retrieve Jon, and they head for the boats. Edd, Jon, Tormund, Wun Wun, and several wildlings narrowly escape the wights chasing them.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Edd departs Hardhome. 		 	 
In the process, they leave a substantial amount of essential Dragonglass at the site and barely make it onto a longboat.They manage to get to the last remaining boat and quickly row out to a safe distance. As Edd and the others look on in horror, the Night King raises his arms triumphantly; all around it, the slain wildlings rise up as undead wights. The Night King and his army continue to stare in silence as they retreat. Edd is later present alongside Jon and the Night's Watch/wildling survivors return to Castle Black.


